# Data Mining & Machine Learning Mini-projects
Data mining and machine learning mini-projects on UCI machine learning repository datasets
1. [Iris dataset EDA & visualization](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/tree/main/1.%20Iris%20dataset%20EDA%20%26%20visualization). Preprocessing the Iris dataset for tasks like classification and clustering, and visualizing it using different plots with seaborn and matplotlib.
2. [Decision tree, ensemble, & Naive Bayes classification on haberman dataset](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/tree/main/2.%20Decision%20tree%2C%20ensemble%2C%20%26%20Naive%20Bayes%20classification%20on%20haberman%20dataset). Comparing different classification methods like DT, Naive Bayes, and also several ensemble techniques like Bagging, Boosting, And Adaboost on Haberman's Survival dataset to predict breast cancer patients' survival rate. 
3. [Clustering on mall customer segmentation dataset](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/tree/main/3.%20Clustering%20on%20mall%20customer%20segmentation%20dataset). Clustering the mall customer segmentation dataset (Not from UCI. From Udemy's MachineLearningAZ course) using different clustering algorithms like K-Means and Agglomerative Hierarchical clustering.
4. [SVM classification on Breast cancer coimbra dataset](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/tree/main/4.%20SVM%20classification%20on%20Breast%20cancer%20coimbra%20dataset). Comparing SVM with Polynomial, Sigmoid,and Gaussian kernels on breast cancer Coimbra dataset for classification and cancer detection.
5. [decision Tree & KNN classification on hayes roth & haberman datasets](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/tree/main/5.%20decision%20Tree%20%26%20KNN%20classification%20on%20hayes%20roth%20%26%20haberman%20datasets). Implementing DT classifier (and tuning with GridSearch) on Hayes Roth dataset, and KNN classifier with euclidean distance (also tuned with GridSearch) on Haberman's dataset while experimenting different aspects.
6. [Handwritten digits classification on semeion dataset using FCNN](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/blob/main/6.%20Handwritten%20digits%20classification%20on%20semeion%20dataset%20using%20FCNN/semeion.ipynb). Implementing Fully-connected neural network from scratch for in-depth understanding and using it to classify semeion hand-written digits, then comparing the performance with the Keras version (in a few lines of code).
7. [Handwritten digits classification on MNIST dataset using DCNN](https://github.com/shsaronian/data-mining-machine-learning-mini-projects/tree/main/7.%20Handwritten%20digits%20classification%20on%20MNIST%20dataset%20using%20DCNN) Classifying MNIST digits with CNN using Keras, and hyper-parameter tuning with a customized GUI bulit with tkinter (which takes hyper-parameter values from the user and tunes the CNN accordingly).
